2019 Kubernetes Documentation Survey results (#16462)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2019-sig-docs-survey.md

- 95.96% read the documentation in English

# Question and response highlights

## Why people access the Kubernetes documentation

The majority of respondents stated that they access the documentation for the Concepts.

{{< figure
    src="/images/blog/2019-sig-docs-survey/Q9-k8s-docs-use.png"
    alt="Why respondents access the Kubernetes documentation"
>}}

This deviates only slightly from what we see in Google Analytics: of the top 10
most viewed pages this year, #1 is the kubectl cheatsheet in the Reference section,
followed overwhelmingly by pages in the Concepts section.

## Satisfaction with the documentation

We asked respondents to record their level of satisfaction with the detail in
the Concepts, Tasks, Reference, and Tutorials sections:

- Concepts: 47.96% Moderately Satisfied
- Tasks: 50.54% Moderately Satisfied
- Reference: 40.86% Very Satisfied
- Tutorial: 47.25% Moderately Satisfied

## How SIG Docs can improve each documentation section

We asked how we could improve each section, providing respondents with
selectable answers as well as a text field. The clear majority would like more
example code, more detailed content, more diagrams, and advanced tutorials:

> - ```Personally, would like to see more analogies to help further understanding.```

Reviewer: Sorry for being unclear. By fencing responses, I meant to fence entire blocks instead of individual responses:
```
- Personally, would like to see more analogies to help further understanding.
- Would be great if corresponding sections of code were explained too
- Expand on the concepts to bring them together - they're a bucket of separate eels moving in different directions right now
- More diagrams, and more example code
```
Otherwise, text renders oddly:

<img width="1113" alt="Screen Shot 2019-10-07 at 6 11 20 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3210446/66359950-ecf83380-e92d-11e9-85ec-0a52da94c931.png">

- ```Would be great if corresponding sections of code were explained too```
- ```Expand on the concepts to bring them together - they're a bucket of separate eels moving in different directions right now```
- ```More diagrams, and more example code```

Respondents used the "Other" text box to record areas causing frustration:

> - ```Keep concepts up to date and accurate```

Reviewer: Fix fencing.

- ```Keep task topics up to date and accurate. Human testing.```
- ```Overhaul the examples. Many times the output of commands shown is not actual.```
- ```I've never understood how to navigate or interpret the reference section```
- ```Keep the tutorials up to date, or remove them```

## How SIG Docs can improve the documentation overall

We asked respondents how we can improve the Kubernetes documentation
overall. Some took the opportunity to tell us we are doing a good job:

> - ```For me, it is the best documented open source project.```

Reviewer: Fix fencing.

- ```Keep going!```
- ```I find the documentation to be excellent.```
- ```You [are] doing a great job. For real.```

Other respondents provided feedback on the content:

> -  ```...But since we're talking about docs, more is always better. More

Reviewer: Fix fencing.

advanced configuration examples would be, to me, the way to go. Like a Use Case page for each
configuration topic with beginner to advanced example scenarios. Something like that would be
awesome....```
- ```More in-depth examples and use cases would be great. I often feel that the Kubernetes
documentation scratches the surface of a topic, which might be great for new users, but it leaves
more experienced users without much "official" guidance on how to implement certain things.```
- ```More production like examples in the resource sections (notably secrets) or links to production like
examples```
- ```It would be great to see a very clear "Quick Start" A->Z up and running like many other tech
projects. There are a handful of almost-quick-starts, but no single guidance. The result is
information overkill.```

A few respondents provided technical suggestions:

> - ```Make table columns sortable and filterable using a ReactJS or Angular component.```

Reviewer: Fix fencing.

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes Documentation Survey"
date: 2019-09-19
slug: Kubernetes-Documentation-End-User-Survey
---

**Author:** Aimee Ukasick and SIG Docs

> In September, SIG Docs conducted its first survey about the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/). It was definitely a learning experience. We'd like to thank the CNCF's Kim McMahon for helping us create the survey and access the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In September, SIG Docs conducted its first survey about the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/). We'd like to thank the CNCF's Kim McMahon for helping us create the survey and access the results.
```

> # Key takeaways

Reviewer: Remove bullets from these points and make them separate paragraphs.

Author: ok... no "executive" bullet points?

> - Respondents would like to see more example code, more detailed content, and more diagrams in the Concepts, Tasks, and Reference sections

Reviewer: For example: 
```suggestion
Respondents would like more example code, more detailed content, and more diagrams in the Concepts, Tasks, and Reference sections.
```

- 74% of respondents would like the Tutorials section to contain advanced content
- 69.70% said the Kubernetes documentation is the first place they look for information about Kubernetes

# Survey methodology and respondents

> The survey was conducted in English and only available for 4 days due to time constraints. We announced the survey on Kubernetes mailing lists, in Kubernetes Slack channels, on Twitter, and in Kube Weekly. There were 23 questions, and respondents took an average of 4 minutes to complete the survey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We conducted the survey in English. The survey was only available for 4 days due to time constraints. We announced the survey on Kubernetes mailing lists, in Kubernetes Slack channels, on Twitter, and in Kube Weekly. There were 23 questions, and respondents took an average of 4 minutes to complete the survey.
```

> Quick facts about respondents:

Reviewer: Remove bullet points and add a subheading.

```suggestion
## Quick facts about respondents
```

 - 48.48% are experienced Kubernetes users, 26.26% expert, and 25.25% beginner
 - 57.58% use Kubernetes in both administrator and developer roles
 - 64.65% have been using the Kubernetes documentation for more than 12 months
 - 95.96% read the documentation in English

We asked why people access the Kubernetes documentation, and the majority answered for the Concepts.

{{< figure
    src="/images/blog/2019-sig-docs-survey/Q9-k8s-docs-use.png"
    alt="Why respondents access the Kubernetes documentation"
>}}

> This deviated only slightly from what we see in Google Analytics: of the top 10 page hits year to date, #1 was the kubectl cheatsheet in the Reference section, followed overwhelmingly by pages in the Concepts section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This deviates only slightly from what we see in Google Analytics: of the top 10 most-viewed pages this year, #1 is the kubectl cheatsheet in the Reference section, followed overwhelmingly by pages in the Concepts section.
```

> We asked respondents to record their level of satisfaction with the detail in the Concepts, Tasks, Reference, and Tutorials sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We asked respondents to record their level of satisfaction with the detail in the Concepts, Tasks, Reference, and Tutorials sections:
```

- Concepts: 47.96% Moderately Satisfied
- Tasks: 50.54% Moderately Satisfied
- Reference: 40.86% Very Satisfied
- Tutorial: 47.25% Moderately Satisfied

> We also asked how we could improve each section, providing respondents with selectable answers as well as a text field. The clear majority would like more example code, more detailed content, more diagrams, and advanced tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also asked how we could improve each section, providing respondents with selectable answers as well as a text field. The clear majority would like more example code, more detailed content, more diagrams, and advanced tutorials:
```

> - Personally, would like to see more analogies to help further understanding.

Reviewer: Would it make more sense to fence responses in a code block?

Author: done

- Would be great if corresponding sections of code were explained too
- Expand on the concepts to bring them together - they're a bucket of separate eels moving in different directions right now
- More diagrams, and more example code

Respondents used the "Other" text box to record areas causing frustration:

> - Keep concepts up to date and accurate

Reviewer: Fence these responses, too.
